Abstract of oral presentation on ADASS XIII, Strasbourg, 12-15 Oct. 2003:

  (NOTE: the presentation could also be split in two contributions, one for 
    ADASS XIII proper, the other for the IOVA interoperability meeting)

      Accessibility and exploitation of "published" extragalactic data:
                    public and private efforts

                          Heinz Andernach

        Dept. of Astronomy, Univ. Guanajuato, Guanajuato, Mexico

The current situation of public accessibility of tabular data contained in
publications is reviewed, including access from sources like astronomical
data centers, preprint servers, and electronic journals. It is shown that
despite the enormous increase, during the last decade, of data stored at 
the data center(s), the current coverage of articles with tabular data on
at least 100 objects is near 50 per cent only, albeit with a (not too
strong) trend for better coverage of larger tabular data sets. Similarly
it is shown that the backlog of catalogues "in the process of being integrated
in the CDS catalogue archive" (INPREP) is currently at 10 per cent of the
total catalogue archive, with a median time passed since publication of 
2.5 years.

In parallel to the collection at the established data centers, and partly
as a necessity for his own research projects, since 1989 the author
has collected tabular data from over 1500 publications, about 60% of
these concerned with radio observations, and the rest with extragalactic
objects in general. Tables from about 250 publications were recovered
by the author by means of optical character recognition (OCR). Tables for 
only about 60 per cent of these 1500 articles are available from the CDS 
or CATS (cats.sao.ru) catalogue collections.

Examples of accessibility of data from current electronic journals, as well
as continuing problems with nomenclature of astronomical objects are
presented. Both problems are counterproductive for the timely integration
of tabular data in the data center collections. I close with an example
of active exploitation of electronic tabular data and conclude that
both, object databases like NED & SIMBAD, as well as catalogue browsers
like Vizier and CATS, complement each other, and that further human resources
must be employed to achieve a better coverage of published extragalactic
data within the Virtual Observatory project.

