Presentation Information
1.
Requested Presentation Type: Oral
Presentation Title : I.L.Andronov. "Wavelet and Scalegram Analysis of
(Irregularly Spaced) Astronomical Signals"
Presentation Abstract : 

The extensions of the wavelet and scalegram analysis
for the signals with arbitrary argument distributions have been discussed.
In an addition to the methods based on least-squares fits with additional
weight functions for the wavelet (Foster 1996, Andronov 1998, 1999) and
scalegram (Andronov 1997) analysis, we discuss an application of generalized
wavelets based on finite or infinite number of mother wavelets. For
practical applications, the wavelet based on scaled copies of the same
mother function, is proposed. In the least-squares extension, it becomes
also an extension of the scalegram. The results of the analysis made using
the "running parabola fit" with the weight function $(1-z^2)^2)$ are
compared with that obtained using the Morlet-Foster wavelet analysis.
General formulae for arbitrary basic and weight functions are presented,
results for concrete applications are compared.

2.
Requested Presentation Type: oral or poster
Presentation Title (preliminary, to be justified by co-authors):
I.L.Andronov, L.L.Chinarova, J.Cuypers, J.L.Halbwachs, S.Piquard. "Automatic
Photometric Classification of the Hipparcos-Tycho Suspected Variable Stars"
Presentation Abstract : 

Results of the time series analysis of 2-channel
epoch photometry of nearly eight hundred stars suspected in variability from
the Hipparcos-Tycho project have been presented. The methodological aspects
for such studies are discussed. The basic periodograms have been computed
using the third-order trigonometric polynomial. For a hundred of best
probable periods at the periodogram, the phase light curve was tested both
for the shape and coincidence in two colors. Besides the trigonometric
polynomial, specially developed methods for "catching" eclipsing and
pulsating variables have been developed and used. According to the fit,
which is the best for given data and trial period, the differential
corrections for the frequency have been computed.
Examples of automatic photometric classification are presented.

