Subject: Financial aid
From: christophe bonnaud <cbonnaud@obs.univ-lyon1.fr>
Date: Fri, 18 Jul 2003 15:28:35 +0200
To: adass2003@newb6.u-strasbg.fr

Dear Madam, Dear Sir,

this is my request for Financial Aid :

Name : BONNAUD Christophe
Position : Student
institution : CRAL (Centre de Recherche Astronomique de Lyon)

adress : Observatoire de Lyon
         9 avenue Charles André
         69561 Saint Genis Laval cedex

email : cbonnaud@obs.univ-lyon1.fr
phone : 04 78 86 83 81
citizenship : French
Academic Level : Phd student
vita : sent by Pierre Ferruit ( pierre@obs.univ-lyon1.fr )

Presentation abstract: sent by Pierre Ferruit ( pierre@obs.univ-lyon1.fr  )

Requested Financial Aid : Hotel (4 nights at 53 ¤) and Registration Fee.

Letter of recommendation : sent by Pecontal Emmanuel ( Pecontal@obs.univ-lyon1.fr )

thanks.


Presentation title : a numerical simulation of SNIFS instrument.
Requested Presentatin : Oral


In the recent years, type Ia supernovae studies took considerable importance 
in cosmology,  owing to  the fact  that they  are probably standard candles. 
To get rid of this ``probably'', it is necessary to study a large sample of 
nearby supernovae in an homogeneous way. This led a Franco-American consortium 
to build the Supernova Integral Field Spectrograph (SNIFS), which will aim at 
observing more than 400 supernovae during the next 2-3 years. To be able to 
help the instrument definition, to predict the instrument performances and to 
allow for an early development of the data reduction software, we have 
developed a numerical simulator of this instrument as realistic as possible. 
This implies to account for all physical phenomena that, one way or another, 
disturb the incident object wave front. We will describe the strategy adopted 
to treat all the disturbances and the different steps of the wave-front 
propagation through the instrument. The model we used is based mainly on 
Fourier optics and use Zernike polynomials phase masks to handle the effects 
of the atmosphere and the optical aberrations of the instrument. 
