Date: Fri, 11 Jul 2003 06:00:19 -0500
From: "Shaukat N. Goderya" <goderya@phy.ilstu.edu
To: adass2003@newb6.u-strasbg.fr
Cc: goderya@phy.ilstu.edu
Subject: Application for Financial Aid for Shaukat Goderya

Dear Sir,
I am interested in attending the ADSS 2003 conference in October to=20
present an Oral paper. I am requesting financial aid and therefore=20
submitting an application with requested information. Please let me the=20
decision on my application as soon as possible. Thanks.
Yours Sincerely,
Shaukat Goderya
Department of Physics
Illinois State University
USA

*   Applicant Information
          o Name of Applicant: Dr. Shaukat N. Goderya
          o Postition Title: Director of General Education Physics=20
 Laboratories
          o Institution: Illinois State University
          o Postal Address: Department of Physics, ISU, Normal, IL=
 61790-4560
          o Email Address: goderya@phy.ilstu.edu
          o Phone Number: 309-438-5247
          o Citizenship: US
          o Academic Level (if applicant is a student): Undergraduate,
 Graduate: Not Applicable
    * Vita and Bibliography (maximum of 2 printed pages): See attached pdf
 file

    * Requested Financial Aid
          o Hotel (up to 4 nights): Yes
          o Registration Fee: Yes
          o Demo Fee: NO

    * Presentation Information
          o Requested Presentation Type: Oral, Poster, Demo: Oral
          o Presentation Title: 
Advances in Automated Algorithms for Morphological Classification of Galaxies 
based on Shape Features.
          o Presentation Abstract:
Among the many celestial objects in the universe, galaxies offer insights
as to how the universe was formed and is continuing to develop. The
morphological classification of galaxies is important just for this
reason. The challenge lies in classifying the estimated billions of
galaxies that are in the universe. The Hubble Deep Field has already
produced images which contain thousands of galaxies in a region of
the sky which is dark not only to the naked eye, but also to very
large ground based telescopes. The Sloan Digital Sky Survey has started
to produce vast amounts of data which would take expert human classifiers
an tremendous amount of time to sift through the images and classify
the galaxies one by one. The automated procedure described here uses
an image enhancing technique, thresholding, shape feature extraction
and a supervised artificial neural network to classify the galaxies.
When trained to classify galaxies as E/S0 or S, the network is able
to learn 98.3\% of the galaxies correctly and identify 89.9\% of galaxy
images in a test set. The major challenge is in the development of rhobust
and automated thresholding schemes. With manually thresholded images and
Difference Boosting Neural Network we were able to acheive considerable=20
success
in developing a supervised classifier capable of sorting galaxies into=20
subclasses.

