Presentation Information

Presentation type: Oral
Presentation title: 
Wide Field Optical Camera for search of fast cosmic transients

Abstract: 

An automatic wide-field optical camera (WFOC) has been developed, manufactured 
and tested by Space Research Institute (IKI) in collaboration of State 
Research Center "Kosmoten" and Special Astrophysical Observatory.  Owing to 
its unique objective lens (D=150 mm, F=1:1.2), image intensifier (scaling 
factor 4.5:1, amplification coefficient 120) and TV-class CCD matrix this 
camera allows for continuous monitoring of  15x20 deg. FOV with the 
sensitivity up to 12m and time resolution of 0.1 s. The real-time software 
is able to perform on-the-fly identification of transient celestial sources 
and estimate their brightness and location parameters.

The primary purpose of this WFOC is to perform continuous, alert-independent 
observations of optical transients and variable astrophysical sources 
simultaneously with space-born wide-field X-ray and gamma-ray telescopes. 
All the high time resolution data are stored in a data base for a limited 
amount of time and then used for multiwavelength correlative analysis using 
X-ray, gamma-ray and radio data. At the same time, the real-time source 
identification software generates alerts that could be sent to global alert 
distribution networks such as GCN. We estimate that within one year of 
continuous observation with WFOC we will observe simultaneously with space 
born telescopes  the following  numbers of GRB error boxes: 1.6 (WXM/HETE-2), 
0.5 (SPI/INTEGRAL), and 4 (BAT/SFIFT). This estimation takes into account 
duty cycles of the telescopes.

Within 1 year we plan to manufacture at least one more similar WFOC which 
can be deployed, together with necessary network infrastructure, at one of 
the major FSU optical observatories. In this setup the WFOC-generated alerts 
would be sent locally to the mid-size automated optical telescope via LAN, 
initiating slewing of this telescope to the positions of the identified 
optical transients within 1 minute from the moment of its detection. With 
such a fully autonomous dual system we would be able to detect and perform 
photometry, spectroscopy and polarimetry with high sensitivity of prompt 
optical emission of both long and short duration Gamma Ray Bursts (GRB), 
optical flashes preceding gamma-ray emission in GRBs, GRB afterglows not 
identified in X-rays (orphans afterglows), optical outbursts related to 
Soft Gamma Repeaters, possible fast optical supernova precursor, optical 
flashes of LMXBs, X-ray novae and other compact X-ray transients, cataclysmic 
variables and related star. The WFOC could be an essential part of Virtual 
Observatory for sky survey with high time resolution.

We discuss details of WFOC, including software development for real-time 
transient identification and correlative analysis. Results of calibration 
of WFOC and continuous survey since May 2003 are presented.

