* Presentation Information

Oral

Age determination for the nuclear stellar population of Active Galactic
Nuclei (AGN) using Locally Weighted Regression (LWR).

Recent spectroscopic surveys of nearby AGN have proven that a large
fraction show high-order hydrogen Balmer absorption lines in the near-UV.
These features are characteristic of young stars and therefore represent a
strong evidence of the presence of recent star formation in these
galaxies. From a theoretical point of view, it is very important to
determine the age of these starbursts, in order to understand the nature
of the starburst-AGN connection and its relation with galaxy formation and
evolution. The characterization of the nuclear star forming region (its
age and mass) is very difficult to achieve in AGN, due to the
contamination of the nuclear stellar absorption lines by the AGN component
itself.

We present a new technique to determine the age of nuclear starbursts in
galaxies with AGN using an ensemble of classifiers. The classifiers are
specialized in the profile shape of high-order Balmer and Calcium K
absorption lines and therefore very insensitive to the AGN contamination
effect.

An ensemble of classifiers is a group of classifiers whose outputs are
combined in some way, usually by voting. Ensembles of classifiers
normally have better accuracy than the individual classifiers that make
them up. For this work, each member of the ensemble was created using a
randomly selected attribute set, and each applied the locally weighted
regression algorithm, an instance based learning method that explicitly
retains the training data and uses them to build a local linear model,
valid only in the neighborhood of the point of interest, each time a
prediction needs to be made. Our training data consist of 23 high spectral
resolution synthetic models of starbursts of different ages. Each
classifier was trained with randomly generated subsets of features, and
the ensemble was tested using ten-fold cross-validation and an
analytically classified test set. An accuracy of about 0.3dex in
logarithmic age was achieved.

The method was then applied to the optical/near UV spectra of nuclear
regions of nearby Seyfert galaxies covering the wavelength region
3600-5300 Angstroms and it was found to be very insensitive to the AGN
dilution. The results obtained by means of machine learning are compared
with those produced by exhaustive search in terms of time and precision.
We conclude that the automatic learning method greatly surpasses the
performance of the traditional method.

