Presentation Information

 * Requested Presentation Type: Oral/Poster
 * Presentation Title :
   An experience of data fusion from diverse information resources on
   the example of optical identification radio sources.
 * Presentation Abstract
										x
The "Big Trio" [1,2] program directed to an investigation of cosmological
objects, - distant radio galaxies, is had been carrying out for a few years
in the Special Astrophysical Observatory of RAS. The list of research objects
was consisted from radio sources of the deep survey of the sky strip observed
with RATAN-600 [3,4]. 104 radio galaxies were selected from 1145 objects getting in
the survey. Candidate selection was done by a few parameters including a steep
spectrum and a two component radio structure [5]. The most part of
the RC catalog radio sources has flux density between 5 and 50 mJy.
10% of sources have steep spectrum (alpha>0.9) and 70% of ones have double
radio structure. The VLA data (NRAO, USA) were used in the selection procedure.
The basic part of the candidates identifies with galaxies up to 24-25 magnitude
in R band with observations getting on the 6-m telescope of SAO RAS. Data of
the MIT-GB and the FIRST surveys (VLA) are used for turning out of radio
sources structure and making more precise of radio coordinates. Getting with
the 6-m telescope fields were tied to secondary astrometry standards defined
by the DSS-II survey and USNO-A2 catalog for optical identification of radio
sources [5]. Overlaying of optical and radio images was done for 75 sources. The
results of optical identification of radio sources are published in the web
archive (http://sed.sao.ru/rc_archive.html) [6].

The data and resources using in the work may divide on the next groups:
a) Initial information is observation data. Observations were carried out by
RATAN-600, the 6-m and VLA telescopes and next data volume were obtained:
RATAN-600 - 100MB; the 6-m telescope - 4000MB; VLA - 500MB. The data are from
observation data archives SAO RAS, VLA (NRAO, USA);
b) Information from astronomical web-resources using with data processing
(digital surveys and catalogs: DSS-I, DSS-II, FIRST, NVSS, USNO-A2.0);
c) Data processing results. About 2600 files (40 files per object) were
prepared for the web archive. 2-5 arcmin sky area was proceeded per source.
An information volume per source increases from 100 bytes (the RC catalog row)
up to 10MB for the score of engaging the necessary data at processing;
d) Astronomical software: MIDAS (ESO, Germany), GAIA (Starlink, UK),
WCSTools (SAO, USA);
e) Web resources: http://www.eso.org, http://cdsweb.u-strasbg.fr,
http://cfa-www.harvard.edu, http://www.nrao.edu, http://ad.usno.navy.mil,
http://star-www.rl.ac.uk

If to sum up of the work that, except for results of investigation of object
sample, there is an electronic collection assembled from different information
resources. It can be utilized and in further for a collaborative team occupied
with investigation of the sample and research of a radio source nature. Only
organization of convenient access to this data collection to operate with it
and simultaneously to publish new results in the Internet is nontrivial problem.
There are sites, where actualization of the heterogeneous data is at a high
level, for example, site of the company Oracle http://www.oracle.com.
It would be desirable with usage of DBMS to organize warehouse from our data
collection, in which the web publication and access to the information are
implemented adequate to our problem.  The warehouse embodying is divided on
some problems by available groups of the data, but basic task is an addition
of the data of new formats. Web access to the heterogeneous archive data
(radio and optical) for source identification, and also to information gaining
at processing of observations, again it is a problem of integrating of archives
and addition of new formats.  It is necessary to have semantic representation
(meta data definition) and to create on its basis the mechanism of a different
data format integrating. Proceeding from comprehension of necessity of similar
operation the interface to the observation data archive as a federation of
archives is developed in our observatory. There is the prototype interface for
access by date to heterogeneous local observation archives
(http://www.sao.ru/oasis/fetch).  For embodying other request types
(by coordinates, tools etc.) the table with the description of connections
between the keyword featuring an observation parameter, the relevant column in
the table with parameters of observations and UCD [7] is switched on in the
structure of the tables. In further it is supposed to implement access to the
observation data according to specifications and formats IVOA (SIM, VOTable)
[8,9].
The work is supported by RFBR, grant N 03-07-90034.

References

1. Goss W.M., Parijskij Y.N., Kopylov A.I., Zhelenkova O.P., Naugolnaya M.N.,
Soboleva N.S., Temirova A.V., Vitkovskij Val.V.: 1994, Turkish J. of  Physics,
v.18, p.894
2. Goss W.M., Parijskij Y.N., Soboleva N.S., Temirova A.V., Vitkovskij Val.V.,
Zhelenkova O.P., Naugolnaya M.N.,: 1992, Astron. Zh., v.69, p.673
3. Parijskij Y.N., Bursov N.N., Lipovka N.M., Soboleva N.S., Temirova A.V..:
1991, Astron. Astrophys. Suppl. Ser., v.87, p.1
4. Parijskij Y.N., Bursov N.N., Lipovka N.M., Soboleva N.S., Temirova A.V.,
Chepurnov A.V..: 1992, Astron. Astrophys. Suppl. Ser., v.96, p.583
5. Parijskij Y.N., Goss W.M., Kopylov A.I., Soboleva N.S., Temirova A.V.,
Verkhodanov O.V., Zhelenkova O.P., Naugolnaya M.N.: 1996, Bull. Spec.
Astrophys. Obs., v.40, pp. 5-105
6. Verkhodanov O.V., Kopylov A.I., Zhelenkova O.P., Verkhodanova N.V.,
Chernenkov V.N., Parijskij Y.N., Soboleva N.S., Temirova A.V., 2000,
Astronomical and Astrophysical Transactions, v.19, pp 663-667
7. Unified Content Descriptors (UCDs), http://vizier.u-strasbg.fr/doc/UCD.htx
8. Simple Image Access Prototype Specification,
http://www.us-vo.org/news/simspec.html
9. VOTable: A Proposed XML Format for Astronomical Tables, R. Williams et al.,
http://cdsweb.u-strasbg.fr/doc/VOTable

